Document binary caching (multiple articles) (#130)
microsoft/vcpkg-docs: vcpkg/consume/binary-caching.md

---
title: Reduce package build times with binary caching
description: Learn to set up a binary cache to reduce rebuild times.
author: vicroms
ms.author: viromer
ms.date: 8/13/2023
ms.prod: vcpkg
---
# Reduce package build times with binary caching

Most ports in the [vcpkg public registry](<https://github.com/Microsoft/vcpkg>) are built from

> source. Building from source ensures maximum compatiblity by using the same environment, build

Reviewer: ```suggestion
source. Building from source ensures maximum compatibility by using the same environment, build
```

tools, and configurations you use for your project in your dependencies. However, this  can also
result in duplicated builds when multiple projects, developers, or machines require the same
dependencies.

> Setting up a binary cache allows vcpkg to save the build output of a package in a shared location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting up a binary cache allows vcpkg to save the compiled files of a package in a shared location
```

and reuse it when asked to build the same package with the same configuration, saving time on
rebuilds. 

Binary caches can be hosted in a variety of environments, the most basic form of binary caching is a
directory containing zipped archives of a package's build output. More advanced scenarios include
NuGet package feeds hosted in [GitHub Packages](<https://docs.github.com/en/packages>), [Azure
DevOps Artifacts](<https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/devops/artifacts/start-using-azure-artifacts?view=azure-devops&tabs=nuget>),
or other such services.

Binary caching is especially effective in scenarios where dependencies and configuration

> don't change often, such as in CI or build servers. Binary packages are particularly susceptible to

Reviewer: "Binary caching is especially effective in scenarios where dependencies and configuration don't change often, such as in CI or build servers." - Consider specifying the abbreviation "CI" (Continuous Integration) upon first use.

"Binary packages are particularly susceptible to configuration changes" - Specify what "binary packages" are referring to.

configuration changes (compiler version, compilation flags, installed tools, vcpkg-specific scripts,
etc) which makes sharing them between developer machines difficult. See the [`vcpkg
export`](../commands/export.md) for a different option to share built packages.

See the [Binary Caching documentation](../users/binarycaching.md) to learn about the different [storage backends](../users/binarycaching.md#providers).

## Set up a local binary cache

> ### Default binary cache

Reviewer: "Default binary cache" - Consider changing the title to "Default Local Binary Cache" for clarity.

By default, vcpkg creates a local binary cache. This helps save time when installing the same
package on the same machine.

> The location of the default binary cache depends on your operative system. 

Reviewer: "The location of the default binary cache depends on your operative system." - Replace "operative" with "operating."

Author: Intrusive Spanish false cognates

### [Windows](#tab/default-windows)

> Binary caching is enabled by default at the first valid location of:

Reviewer: "Binary caching is enabled by default at the first valid location of:" - Consider rephrasing to "By default, binary caching is enabled at the first valid location among the following:"

* The location specified by the `VCPKG_DEFAULT_BINARY_CACHE` environment variable
* `%LOCALAPPDATA%\vcpkg\archives`
* `%APPDATA%\vcpkg\archives`

> ### [Non-Windows](#tab/default-non-windows)

Reviewer: I think there's a way to synchronize these tabs across multiple pages and sections.

Also, should we use `Unix` instead of `Non-Windows`?

Binary caching is enabled by default at the first valid location of:

* The location specified by the `VCPKG_DEFAULT_BINARY_CACHE` environment variable
* `$XDG_CACHE_HOME/vcpkg/archives`
* `$HOME/.cache/vcpkg/archives`

---

Use the `VCPKG_DEFAULT_BINARY_CACHE` environment variable to change the default binary cache
location.

The default binary cache uses a [`files` provider](../users/binarycaching.md#files-provider). This

> type of binary cache provider stores binary packages as compressed archives in a filesystem

Reviewer: "This type of binary cache provider stores binary packages as compressed archives in a filesystem location." - Consider rephrasing to "This binary cache provider type stores binary packages as compressed archives in a filesystem directory."

location.

### Disabling the default binary cache

> To disable the default binary cache you need to set the [`VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES` environment

Reviewer: "To disable the default binary cache you need to set the VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES environment variable to clear." - Consider rephrasing to "To disable the default binary cache, set the VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES environment variable to clear."

variable](../users/binarycaching.md#configuration-syntax) to `clear`.

### [Windows](#tab/disable-windows)

```PowerShell
PS D:\vcpkg> $env:VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES="clear"
```

### [Non-Windows](#tab/disable-non-windows)

```bash
$ VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES=clear
```

---

### Set up local binary cache locations

You are not limited to the default binary cache location as your only local binary cache, it is
possible to configure multiple filesystem locations as binary caches. You can even set up specific
caches as read-only, write-only, or read and write.

All binary caches are configured through the `VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES` environment variable. The value
of `VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES` follows a  specific [configuration
syntax](../users/binarycaching.md#configuration-syntax).

> ### Example of multiple binary cache locations

Reviewer: "Example of multiple binary cache locations" - Consider changing the title to "Example: Configuring Multiple Binary Cache Locations."

In this example we will set up two binary cache locations:

* `\\remote\shared\vcpkg-cache` which is a network location, and
* `D:\vcpkg-cache\archives`

We want the remote location to be read-only, meaning we will use this location to restore packages
but won't upload any locally-built binary packages to it. The second location will have both read
and write permissions and we will use as a backup binary cache.

> Let's set the value of `VCPKG_BINARY_SOURCES` as follows `clear;files,\\remote\shared\vcpkg-cache,read;files,D:\vpckg-cache\archive`.

Reviewer: "D:\vpckg-cache\archive" - Typo: "vpckg-cache" should be "vcpkg-cache."

> Breaking down the configuration we have:

Reviewer: "Breaking down the configuration we have:" - Consider rephrasing to "Breaking down this configuration:"
